Great.
Oh, could we have a little butter?
A little butter, please?
It's interesting, isn't it, that where there has been an autobiography, and also almost a classic biography, that a new biography is necessary.
Now, I know some of the technical reasons for the release of the, you know, in 1990, a lot of the papers and stuff, but...
I'm sure you also agree that every generation needs a new life.
Well, especially in this case, because what happened with E. Curie's book was that it was really so popular and such a big book in so many people's minds that it really preempted the field.
Don't mind.
I'm just going to periodically check this.
Is it working?
Yeah, it's fine.
It's fine.
And it had been, I mean, it took, there were a lot of reasons, you're right, a lot of sort of intellectual reasons to do it again.
A lot has happened, the women's movements happened, World War II and the atom bomb have happened since 1937, which would be the date of E.S.
Curious, but...
But the reason that, you know, I thought a lot about that work, of course, and why I decided I wanted to do this.
Madame Curie had been a really important book to me growing up.
And in fact, when I graduated from high school, I quoted from it in my high school valedictory speeches.
And it turns out it's a very important book for a lot of people, especially women, especially women in sciences.
But when I went back to it, about eight years ago, I looked at it, I realized that it's a very idealized and a triumphal version of her life.
You see the cruelty of Satan, but you don't see her difficulties, but the context, you know, the world around her.
Very selective.
And in fact, the first thing I did was, when I decided to do this, was go and talk to Eve, Curie Laboree.
I was amazed that you were able to.
Yeah.
I didn't really expect you to do that.
Well, she's 90.
Yeah.
Maybe 91 by now.
She's still alive.
And she's alive and well, very well, and lives quite well in Manhattan.
It's funny, because I didn't know where she was, and my husband is a New Yorker, and he's a New Yorker, old file, and I said to him, you know, Danny, where am I going to find this woman?
And he said, look in the Manhattan directly, she'll be here.
And she was.
And so I went to see her, and from our conversation, I gleaned, it became more clear to me than I had before that she had a hidden agenda in writing that book.
And it was very clearly, she said to me, I wrote it because I wasn't afraid of what I'm going to do.
So, you know, I feel her book was the inspiration kind of for a lot of people.
And my book, I hope, can be both inspiration and also information context about what it is like to be a woman who's that far ahead of, that kind of really pioneering woman.
I mean, one of the so very few.
And it turns out that she had a lot of problems.
And they don't really get dealt with in these books at all.
No.
No, not at all.
Well, they're momentous.
Yeah, they really are.
And what's amazing is that there hasn't been more biographies, actually.
Look at something like Einstein.
I mean, how many, I don't know how many biographies there are.
It's funny you should bring that up.
I was just saying the other day, I haven't seen an Einstein.
A new Einstein.
A good Einstein.
Yeah, a new one.
Yeah, there's no correspondence being published very recently, I know.
Yeah.
But it seems to me over the years there's been maybe hundreds, you know.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's true.
So, you know, you think so, yeah.
But I think what people have felt, and it was said to me a lot, there's this feeling, because that book was, there was a book and then there was a movie, and for a lot of people it's kind of etched, you know, in,
forever in memory, and that's who she was, and it's iconic in a way.
Yeah, it's a rock.
Yeah.
Right, right.
It was those biopics, you know, and she was, for a lot of people, she was...
when it's done right on me, Walter Pigeon and Drew Garci in that movie.
In fact, I did a thing at the Coolidge Corner.
It was really fun.
We showed that 1943 movie, and then I talked about my book and did a signing.
It was really interesting.
What's been interesting to me about this is that I get kind of... There's been an attitude towards Marie Curie, among feminists particularly, that she's kind of not one of us.
And she was so famous and she was so successful.
And, you know, there's somebody named Margaret Rossiter, who's a historian of science, and she wrote a book about women in science in this period.
And she claims that Marie Curie's visit to America actually set women scientists back because she was so famous and so idealized that other women were told, well, you know, you can't be Madame Curie, so therefore, you know, forget it.
I mean, she calls this the Madame Curie strategy.
You're kidding me.
No, and she brings up a threshold, a raise of threshold.
Well, it's such a cockeyed argument.
I mean, it's crazy.
But see, I think it all comes out of this triumphal version of her life.
Because she's been presented as this person who kind of was imperfect.
You know, it wasn't like us other women, you know.
She didn't have to face the kinds of prejudices and her rejection and all that stuff that other women have faced.
And it's a real distortion.
When you see this, you know, terribly hurt and humiliated by this whole , which is a very important piece of sexist politics, you know, and it's important to know about it.
I'm amazed that somebody suggested she does, except when she's a Nobel Prize.
Isn't that incredible?
That's right.
I mean, for me, that was all new to me.
And for me, it's one of the most triumphant, really courageous moments in the book, that letter that she writes to the Nobel Committee saying, you know, my science is one thing, my private life is another thing, and I'm coming.
And then she goes.
I mean, it took a lot of courage.
That's right, and not just be done in them.
There's a fascinating book which I really enjoyed and made use of called The Trial of Madame Cayot by Edward Berenson.
He's at the University of California.
And it's about another woman who shot the, she shot the editor of The Figaro.
And it was a, yeah, well, it's a great story.
Because he wrote, he published something shocking about her husband, who was in that cabinet affair with another woman.
And she was, and actually she was, well, it was a huge scandal, and she was essentially,
She was acquitted in the end of the murder because it was done in passion, and that was the thing.
But anyway, these kind of things were not my common in that period in France.
So tell me how you started, Jan.
Again, the book tells me everything I have to know about you.
Right.
Well, you know, I had a couple of special reasons for doing this.
One was that the papers were opening up.
The other was that my sister was married to the U.S.
Ambassador to Poland, and they were living in Warsaw during this period, and they were both Polish freshmen.
So one of the first things I did was to go to Poland.
I spent a month there and traveled around to the praises where she'd worked as a governor for two
the kind of home villages of her family, the squabbies and the...
where the family had come from, and also talked with a grand-nephew and found family papers that hadn't been translated.
That was really important.
I don't speak Polish, so I had to get translated, which is a job and an expense.
Well, I just, you know, a fair amount of revising, and then I had
The poetry was very... I thought it was real important to do the poetry right, to try to get someone to... So I had a couple of poet friends who... What do you call that?
I think you call it diversifying.
And we had fun with that.
But I felt very...
connected to the Polish part because I had this family who were so involved in Poland.
And it helped.
Because it's not that, you know, Polish culture and history, and my brother-in-law's a Polish historian, it's a kind of an arcane and
not that easy to understand things.
So that was important for me.
Did you start this after the previous biography?
Yeah, yeah.
It was not too long after.
So it's really been that long.
I know, I say seven years, and people say, seven years?
And then they think, well, and they say,
Did you have another job?
A father not having a book.
Will she believe it when it comes out?
Yeah.
Anyway, let's go back.
The Atlantic is nice to work with.
Who do you recommend contacting him?
Well, Bill Whitworth.
Not at all.
He's the editor-in-chief.
He's a very nice guy, very quiet.
And you could lay it out for him, and he would say yes or no, probably right then.
He's amazingly quick about it and very clear, and he runs it.
He's a czar, you know, and he runs it that way.
Oh, yeah, they do.
Yeah.
I wrote this essay for the time about the process of writing the biography.
It wasn't.
I went through one of those things with them.
They loved it.
They were going to publish it.
No, it was going to be an essay in the Times Book Review.
Yeah, TDR.
For Becky?
Yeah, Becky.
Becky bought it.
And then they were supposed to run it before my pub date.
And as the pub date got closer and closer and I didn't hear, you know, I got more and more worried.
My agent called.
They changed their mind.
But they're not doing essays anymore.
Right.
They've changed the whole format.
Anyway, that was one of those, you know, produced and abandoned stories with all of us writers.
This is going to make the book.
This will absolutely make the book.
I was so thrilled.
I took everybody out to dinner.
They at least paid me for a book.
Yeah.
But it was, you know, I mean, the money was not the issue, believe me.
You know, it was just such a high.
And then, you know, of course, I don't know if you saw the Times review last week, but Phil Morrison did it.
It's a very favorable review, because it's lucid and timely and usually written stuff.
It's kind of like a sign, you know, that they're not ravers, you know, so it's very even.
I know.
New and noteworthy.
That's what I said.
Because somebody said to me, well, you know, it wasn't on the cover.
I said, look, you know, I could have been a new and noteworthy.
It happens to really good books.
Really good books.
So now, this time around, to my surprise, I'm being reviewed by Scientist, which am getting very positive reviews from them.
Some were full than others.
There's one in Science magazine, I heard Science.
Do you see Science at all?
But anyway, it's a wonderful review.
It's really one of the best.
Yeah.
Well, Science was mine, too.
I had real...
about taking this on because of the science.
That's a question.
Yes.
Because you do, as a class in one respect, that you do kind of explain the material and lay the material.
Right.
Well, it's a... In accessible terms.
It's really important
you don't want to lose that reader absolutely i mean one thing that i know i never will it's not the way it is well you know a couple things that were helpful one was that justin kaplan told me early on um that as a non-expert you have an advantage because other experts are afraid of being experts are afraid of being caught out by other experts as a non-expert
Yeah.
Yeah, in your book, I'm sure.
But as a non-expert, you can afford to be obvious.
And experts can't.
And you can afford to take that reader, who's also a non-expert, carry him along with you.
So, you know, that was very... I thought he was really right about that.
And I could have kept that in mind.
I also took a college-level chemistry course.
I don't believe you can ever explain so much of a question about it.
Oh, I agree.
I absolutely agree.
And that's one of, of course, you know, if you've ever taught writing, that's one of the great problems.
Right, right.
Yeah, yeah.
I took, I took, now this will show you how brave I am.
I took the college-level chemistry at Pine Manor.
And I took a history of science course at Harvard.
Also very important, because a lot of this science is old, you know, and if you talk to, what I discovered is if you talk to a current contemporary chemist,
about what the quartz pizzo-electrique was and how they were doing their measurements, he has no idea.
He doesn't understand either.
Historians of science have a different kind of knowledge that's really important to understanding this turn-of-the-century science, because so much has happened.
These contemporary scientists, I mean, so much has happened.
They don't understand this primitive stuff so well, you know.
I did go back to school, and I went back to some more friends.
Not at all.
I mean, it's what I like about doing biography, you know.
It's an informal way of doing graduate work, you know.
My son says, you know,
Each book is a Ph.D.
in a way, that's true.
What a nice job you have.
Without, you know.
You probably can't quote me, but without a lot of the bullshit, you know.
But really, you know, I talk to my friends who have PhDs and who teach... Yeah, yeah, it's wonderful, you know.
I read the book, I talk to the author, and then I have to go back and write about it.
And you don't have to deal with the politics of academia and all that stuff.
You know, because I have a lot of friends.
I'm in a biographies group with four other women with four-time biographies.
Yeah.
And five other women.
Is there a new biographies group?
Well, that group has been running for... Well, I was in a writer's group that went on for many, many years.
Yeah, Paula did some reviewing for you, I know.
Yeah, yeah.
And she was in that group with me as an old friend.
The biographies group has been going on for maybe four or five years.
But it's a very interesting contrast between the full-time biographers who are professional writers and the people in academia who are in a state of constant frustration because so much of what they do is not really important or central to their lives and they want to be working on their biographies, you know, and they have to keep...
It's like Poetus Interruptors all the time, you know, you got to go back and do the class.
Nice imagery.
I thought you started this in about 87, 88, right?
Yeah, yeah, I lived in 88.
And so did you go with the opening of those papers before?
I did.
It was one of the reasons I decided was the opening of the papers.
And the fact that my brother-in-law, yeah, me too, my brother-in-law was ambassador to Poland.
So the two things that came to me, plus my early love of this other book, you know, something was telling me this was my book.
Going back forever, almost.
Yeah, really, really, back to high school.
And I was quite fluent in French.
You did a quote from this from your NFL of your period yesterday?
I did, I did, yeah.
Chillicothe High School in Chillicothe, Ohio.
That's C-H-I-L-L-I-C-O-T-H-A.
Is that near Toledo or Columbus?
It's 50 miles south of Columbus.
I'm in Columbus and Toledo.
Toledo takes me a year.
Oh, really?
No, we never finished talking about my newspaper.
Yeah.
Well, Sandy told me you're on 68th.
Oh, my gosh.
I'm 16th.
She said 68th.
Oh, well.
She's a publisher.
No, no, you must have misguided.
No, no, she's printed on my little thing.
I don't have a weapon.
Yeah, that's a mistake.
Okay, 16.
Well, 16's pretty good.
Oh, I wish.
Damn it, my papers are collapsed.
I mean, of what I've done here, I still have to get more.
So.
Well, I was talking about going back to school, and the reasons for doing it.
Of course, then what happened was, yeah, what happened then was that the things that opened in January, I was there January 3rd, 1990, 9 o'clock in the morning.
Yeah, I know.
That's the French style.
It's very hard to get used to.
And those turned out to be amazing and wonderful.
Well, what was really important was that there were two journals there.
One was a journal she kept for the whole year after Pierre died, and it was very emotional and very touching.
And it kind of recapitulated their life together in the last days before his death.
So it had that kind of sense of a domestic life together with children, which I hadn't gotten anywhere else.
Now, you were there when it opened.
Were you able to get there this pencil?
Well, no, I'm still in French, and it was all in French.
At that point, she didn't use her Polish much anymore.
So there was that, and there was a wonderful record, very...
The Internet is revealing, in a certain way, a very careful record of her children's progress, both physical growth and height, weight, all that stuff, but also notes about their progress.
So you've got to see her as a mother.
And that, to me, was very revealing, almost more than anything.
Very touching.
You know, the problem was that she was remote.
It's hard to attend the inner emotion.
I knew it wasn't there.
that she, because partly of these public humiliations,
she developed a kind of a persona.
I love those two little anecdotes you have at the Westlands.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, it makes a fuss, right.
Yeah, yeah, I love you too.
Those actually, that's the kind of, you know, those little quirky things.
Those were only available in Polish, because Polish
No kidding.
A newspaper person had interviewed that chauffeur towards the end of her life, or after she died, actually.
And so they were in a Polish newspaper, and when I did a search of the Polish library, there it was.
So there's no reason for that.
Absolutely not.
No, that's right.
And you've got to go there.
You've got to go there physically.
Right.
And by the way, I'm the only biographer, I believe, I think there have been, you can say there have been five biographies, including a French one that's translated, and I'm the only one that's gone to Poland.
And that's a huge difference.
You know, you've got to go to Poland.
The cookie is, you know.
Absolutely.
Every single thread.
I mean, you wouldn't suggest that this was a very indigenous man, didn't you?
Well, I think hers was a revision of the biography.
You know what I mean.
I mean, it was a biography which revised the record in order to protect her mother.
And it's a very understandable impact on the part of a daughter, and very admirable even, I think, you know.
But that was 1937, and this is 1995, and now...
That, you have heard, doesn't seem relevant anymore, because too much is left out.
I remember when Justin Chaplin was sitting around, considering there was a book like... Oh, Charlie Chaplin?
That was one, and then was Grant he was thinking about?
Grant.
Oh, right.
And that, of course, does the poetry from McFeely's book.
Yeah, the Grant book.
But he said, one of the reasons why it's so pertinent to what you're saying, one of the reasons he's got a new grant that was, he had a great grant, a wonderful number.
But he said, you know, you read these people not so much for what they say, but also for what they don't say.
Absolutely, that's true.
And then your job is to find out.
You just mentioned once, the lessons, the study, I mean, the people in the Panama... You're right, the whole scandal thing.
No, yeah, not just the scandal, but the people who were building the... Oh, yeah.
Basically, it's called a credit for it.
Yeah, yeah.
Maybe this is... Yeah.
It's very revealing in her case, and it's exactly in character.
You know, what her daughter says is I'm sure what she said.
That's the thing about being rejected from the Academy.
What E. Teary says, you know, it didn't bother her one whit.
Other people in her laboratory were bothered.
She was not bothered.
Well, I don't believe that.
You know, nobody, nobody.
It's a huge, and the Academy of Sciences was the powerful establishment body of scientists in France and in Europe.
You know, and to not be admitted to membership had to be a powerful blow, and I think it influenced everything afterwards.
I think everything she did,
for founding that institute, for establishing her own kind of counter-establishment, you know, which developed into, really, the French counter-establishment.
Yeah, that's interesting.
She could have, right.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I think that was more Pierre than her, I suspect, although she has maintained it with, with, with, she as much as him.
But I, I think,
You know, later in life, she turned out to be a really brilliant fundraiser and administrator, not afraid to go after the foundations and the books.
You know, she came to America twice.
She established all those contacts.
And that's another part of a myth, you know, that I think is unfortunate.
It is that she was somehow, all of this, these trips to America and this fundraising were something that was orchestrated by somebody else, and she was just a pawn.
I don't believe it.
Absolutely.
And I think that the daughter, like a good daughter, responded to Marie's own autobiography and to the version of the life that she had been presented with.
Oh, yeah.
Well, the other thing that happened, I was going to say earlier,
It always happens, you know, the thing that you think is going to be the big sign isn't, and it comes from out of the blue, because the papers at the Bibliothic National were important and wonderful.
But then, at this other library in the school where Pierre had taught, these other papers
turned up that were unbelievable.
Those were the reminiscences of the plans about the Langevin fair.
Nobody had seen those.
They brought me this block.
Was there an embargo on them, or were they just there, waiting for you to come?
No, there was an embargo.
The Langevin family had had those closed.
But I had a friend who was a historian of science and had written a biography of Paul Langevin.
and who had connections to the launch of our family, and she knew my work and she respected it, so she spoke to them about me.
So when I came to that library, the library, and walked over with this box, and I untied it, and there were these reminiscences, and they were... What do you feel when you said to them?
Oh.
Well, you know, my heart was pounding.
It was, oh, you know the feeling.
I mean, it's like, I mean, it's so bizarre because anyway, you're all alone.
You're all alone in Paris, you know, and there's nobody to tell, you know, but it's like one of the most exciting moments of your life.
Did they allow you to take tomato coffee?
They did.
It's one of those places where they were really casual and they kind of didn't know what they had, you know.
Oh, really?
Really?
Yeah, yeah.
Well, that's, you know,
So I was lucky there, because they weren't used to having researchers, and there wasn't that, you know, it was great.
They copied it for me.
They copied it all for me, you know.
And we weren't helpful.
I think that was not more than maybe 100 pages, but they were incredible 100 pages.
There were things like that anecdote about, no, it was one day's work.
But it was just incredible stuff.
Yeah.
I mean, like those anecdotes about her coming to Jean Perrin's house at midnight and being afraid to go home because she's been threatened with murder by Mrs. Colangeville, you know, all that stuff is from those documents.
I read where the Pampion is now accepting her.
Yeah.
Isn't it interesting?
That's kind of ironic in a way.
Yeah.
It's very ironic.
It's also, you know, the first idea that the feminists had was that Marie Curie should go there alone, which would have been outrageous because she was very important to her to be buried with Pierre, you know, and they're in a beautiful little cemetery, you know.
I know, and Marie and Pierre hated all that stuff.
So it's, you know, they would hate the whole thing.
But I suppose it's good for women or something.
I don't know.
I mean, again, it goes back to the contributions.
Yeah, they're enormous.
But period is important, too.
That's the other thing I really...
feel strongly about.
Because what used to happen is that with Pierre, he was the great scientist and she was kind of a tag along, you know, a hard worker.
And recently, it's become all Marie, you know, and Pierre's kind of left out.
I think he's important, too.
I wanted it to be absolutely clear because I felt there was a process of empowerment that I went through taking those courses, and I wanted to pass that on to the reader, and especially women readers, because they tend to be even more afraid of science than men in general, I think.
And I didn't want to lose them, you know.
But on the other hand, I thought it would have been really condescending to not take her work seriously, you know, to deal only with her being her mother, you know, her mother's side and all that, you know.
And it's amazing also growing up in Beaumont.
I mean, there was nothing there.
Yeah.
No one couldn't even be educated.
Right.
Yeah.
And I was impressed with how casual the routine was in so long.
Incredible.
You can just walk in.
It's still that way, I believe.
Exactly.
Yeah, I think it is.
Anybody can say they attend the Surabite.
Yeah, it's pretty much like that.
Yeah.
It's certainly a different tradition.
Someone asked me at one of the talks I gave, is there a place here or anywhere in the world comparable to the Sorbonne in 1890?
Yeah.
I couldn't answer it.
There was someone in the audience who was a scientist, and so I asked him, and he said that MIT would come the closest.
They have graduate students from all over the world who come, but they have to have stipends, they have to finance it.
You know, you can't come as a penniless whole and just start classes, you know, which is what she did.
It's the other way around.
Yeah, it sure is.
I'm not, but I'm thinking, of course, all the time.
I'm not sure.
I think there might be a danger in doing yet another biography.
There's a way in which
you know certain things, you get into grooves, you know, and I wouldn't want that to happen.
Thinking about something that's closer to the present and closer to my journalism route, but I don't know what it is yet.
Something more contemporary, something that could maybe make a difference, you know, I guess as we get older, you know, as I get older, I think about that, you know.
I mean, I feel these books can and do, can and do make a difference, but
It's something that's, I guess, more immediately impacting us.
For you, and, I mean, very curiously, was there a sense of narrative as you were going along?
Did you have a sense of story?
I had a sense of both stories, mine and hers, and they were intertwined for me.
Yeah, I felt with both books, but especially with this most recent one, I felt there was a process of empowerment, of feeling more confident and competent about mastering the science, the Polish part, the French part.
you know, sort of owning, slowly owning them more and more and more, feeling entitled to take on this life, because it's a big life, you know, and it's... She's not an American.
She's also not a French woman, which I think...
I think I felt, I'm not sure how I would have felt writing a biography of a woman who lived her whole life in France, but this was an outsider.
A lot of people don't.
And of course in Poland she's an enormously important person.
Yeah, it's true though.
She's on the 20,000th wadi note, which is like a dollar bill.
And she's everywhere.
French currency, 500 currency.
I was thinking of getting one, but it's $100.
Yes, it's being published by Odile Jacob in 1996, and they're celebrating the 100th anniversary of the discovery of radioactivity next year, so the timing couldn't be better.
Plus, there's stuff about the Pantheon.
So, really, the book comes out and then you get the French deal?
I'm taking it by your own.
Actually, the French deal was on the basis of the galley.
Really?
Yeah.
And the English deal, I have an English deal, too, and that was much earlier.
I bet you'll have an English deal.
Oh, we've already had queries.
I'm sure.
I'm going to read a chapter of Wolvertonia.
Uh-huh.
Oh, yeah.
Natural for England.
Yeah, I know.
Mine's being published by Heinemann, which I think is quite good.
Yeah, yeah.
I don't know.
Have I missed anything?
I mean, you know, I could go on and on.
I mean, she didn't.
I got closer.
There was a point, I'll tell you a point that was really important for me.
In these diaries at the Bibliotech Nacional, she kept a record of her own body weight.
And when she was quite ill, when this scandal occurred, she lost a huge amount of weight, maybe 15 pounds.
And it's down there.
And then, absolutely, ever the finest, with her children, with herself.
And after looking at those figures, then I went and walked by her apartment house on Quai de Betune, which is right on the stand.
And the doors of the apartment house are huge.
They're maybe 20 feet high, all carved, you know, the way French doors can be.
And I thought of this little figure opening that door and how heavy it would be for her.
And it was a moment of connection, you know, I felt...
At that moment I knew her, I could feel her.
and I go to see this guy in Princeton, New Jersey, and I don't even know what to do.
I'm meeting my mother in 15 minutes at the paper store on Carroll Street.
So let's just get a couple of quick things, and I'm going to ask you to describe this for me.
Sure, let's go.
If you give me your address, then I'll send you a copy.
Good, yeah, yeah.
Do you want to Kate Scott's name?
Yeah.
Oh, the copy of her?
She's magnificent.
Well, I'd like to have her name, because it'll be a while.
She was hired by the production editor, who was the form writer of Princeton University Press, and said, we're getting a scroll for this.
And she found stock book life.
You can't believe it.
Especially in that kind of book, you really need somebody to use it.
I asked you about, yes, and tell me about the daughter once more.
Was she helpful for you?
Even after all these years, did you protect the myth?
I think the latter.
She was extremely gracious and said that everything she knew about her mother was in her book.
and she claimed that her memory she had no memory for these things anymore which may be true um and i would need to go and write my own book and that was pretty much the message but she was she was not um she was not angry or obstructionist she didn't hinder you but she didn't necessarily help you exactly yeah yeah neutral yeah i would say that would you say she was encouraging
Um, no, I wouldn't say terribly.
Does she still have a sense of her mother's greatness?
Yes, yes, very much, yes.
She's a beautiful woman.
Eve was, yes, very, very pretty, and she's still quite an elegant woman.
Okay, that's a good point.
Is that all right with you?
Sure.
And if...